---
layout: post
title: The purpose of wireframes
summary: Designing for the device-free world
<!-- external: # -->
<!-- image-path: /assets/# -->
<!-- youtube: # -->
<!-- vimeo: # -->
category : web
tags : [thoughts, design, ux]
published : true
portfolio : false
comments : true
<!-- preview-img : /assets/posts/nanowrito/preview.png
preview-height : 250
preview-look : dark -->
featured : false
<!-- project : true
project-link : http://nanowrito.com -->
---


It seems like many designers are shitting on wireframes because they lock people in.

They do, if you use them wrong. Here's an example:

http://insideintercom.io/things-cant-wireframed/


Wireframes are communication devices. It lets your client know your design direction


"Minimum Viable wireframe"

"Minimum Viable Explanation"


The goal of the wireframe is to establish the concept, execution, and verify requirements with the client. It's to convince the clients that pay you that this is the direction we're going in - these are the user and design goals, do you agree?

Wireframe presentations should be adapted to the client's level of experience and understanding
They should be used to sell through your point. If you use abstract colors and highly interactive / transitional UX, then you need to show other sites and apps that do it this way, or explain it in a way, through a wireflow or quick sketches or prototypes, so the client understands this is the direction you're taking the experience in




From DERRICK:

You’re wireframing wrong.

At the fundamental core, what does Wireframing do? It frames the experience. It doesn’t define the experience, but it gives it context and flow.

If your website is photo heavy, or depends on video, or has large media element, then that should be in your mockup. Not in the form of greyscale blocks, but actual videos/photos. Yes, you might be using sample photos, or a precanned video in place of a live stream, but you are supposed to be capturing the experience.

My wireframes go through three basic states:
1. Outline
This is literally blocks of color on blocks. What you post above.
2. Colors and Shapes
Get in basic colors and shapes. It shouldn’t be pixel perfect – and in fact, I often use messy brushes just so there isn’t even an expectation that what I’m about to show you is a pixel perfect representation.
3. Samples
Are there animations? Great, add in a basic version. Are there videos or live streams? Throw in a precanned sample or two. Are there images? Drop in some samples quickly.

Then, and only then, do you deliver them.

Here’s the problem: A useful prototype is expensive. Sure, you could throw together your app in two hours with crappy functionality, and then every revision is going to give you more crap code and be a painful mess to change. Or you could spend two weeks on a prototype that performs reasonably well and serves as something that investors and clients can actually work with.

Wireframes exist only as a tool to determine your overall layout and your basic user experience. They exist so you can spend time producing better prototypes that are useful towards the end product, and should capture the experience while still being easy to change.