---
layout: post
title: Semantic-First Design
summary: Designing for the device-free world
<!-- external: # -->
<!-- image-path: /assets/# -->
<!-- youtube: # -->
<!-- vimeo: # -->
category : web
tags : [thoughts, design, ux]
published : true
portfolio : false
comments : true
<!-- preview-img : /assets/posts/nanowrito/preview.png
preview-height : 250
preview-look : dark -->
featured : false
<!-- project : true
project-link : http://nanowrito.com -->
---


When designing for the web, don't think mobile first.

Think Content first.
Then think Semantics. 
How should the content be told, as a story, as a journey?
The semantics are the way you will structure that journey.

(
after this is done
Think Purpose First.
- figure out what a user's purpose is
- does an experience make sense, given the device s/he's on?
   - this will argue for or against RWD)


Then think Semantically.

Structure a content in a way that has no bearing to design.
What is told first, second, and last. What is louder, and what is softer?

What parts are only interesting to some people?

Use semantics to tell a story. Use Markdown (or HTML) to tell that story.
Describe that website to a blind person.

What does the site look like, if you could use only words?

After you have the story, move on to wireframes. Illustrate what pieces are most important
http://alistapart.com/column/start-coding-with-wireframes

Semnatics is important for the old-old browsers, and for the new-new technology that might not support fancy javascripts and other tecknologies. That content may be on a watch or on a pair of glasses. We can't predict the future.

So we prepare for it.

We don't think mobile first anymore- we think of the design of the site, the experience of the site, as a story, or as a journey.

Then we apply that journey to different devices, and add and remove 'features' as appropriate to that journey, and to the capabilities of that device.

What if the device was only able to show text? What if it was an ultra large screen?

Only then can you argue for RWD, or Mobile First
