---
layout: post
title: Hello World. Again. 
summary: Thoughts on why I would start yet another blog. For real this time.
<!-- external: # -->
<!-- image-path: /assets/# -->
<!-- image-icon: /assets/# -->
<!-- youtube: # -->
<!-- vimeo: # -->
category : Writing
tags : [General, Thoughts]
published : true
portfolio : false
comments : true

---

Hello World! This is probably my fifth time attempt at starting a blog, and my umpteenth personal portfolio design. And the first time I've married those two together. 

I'll admit, I'm not the most prolific of writers. Most of my blogs have kind of... evaporated, for lack of a better word. Usually, I run out of things to talk about, but, I figured I need to really start a new one -- this time, a professional one.

As an active practitioner in User Experience, design, electronics and game design, I've always wanted to sound off my ideas, tips, and opinions on things, maybe even help someone out along the way.

The UX and web design community is vibrant and full of smart people, many of whom share knowledge on their own blogs. Despite not being a particularly prolific writer, I feel like we're obliged as professionals to voice our own opinions, share our techniques, and to give a little feedback back to the community.

This blog will mostly focus on User Experience, Interaction and Experiential Design and Game Design topics.


h2. About this Site

Aside from being the first blog and portfolio I'm trying to get serious about, it's also fully-responsive, powered by Github and Jekyll (for free!), and my first foray into the world of pre-processed CSS using SASS. 

I chose the Github and Jekyll combination because it was free, and offered a very high level of customization. Many CMSs are very cumbersome, with heavy in-browser user interfaces and many strict rules on file organization. I prefer to work in text files, so Jekyll was a no-brainer for me. 

As such, there are still several things I would like to do in terms of organizing and optimizing the CSS. It's still quite a bit messy, but "take a look at the inner workings":https://github.com/janzheng/janzheng.github.com.

This site was inspired by "CSS Wizardy":http://www.csswizardry.com and "Nathan McGinness' Portfolio":http://www.nthn.net. I actually used Nathan's site as a starting boilerplate to build this site off of, as his site had stripped out much of the complex organization that Jekyll tries to enforce.

For the design, I stuck to Don Draper's mantra of "Make it simple, but significant." I kept the design minimal to emphasize content.

I'll write another post on how to set up, customize, and design on Jekyll. Stay tuned.