---
layout: post
title: How to Embed Tumblr Without a Server
summary: How to easily add Tumblr to a static site, without PHP or server-side code
<!-- external: # -->
<!-- image-path: /assets/# -->
<!-- youtube: # -->
<!-- vimeo: # -->
category : Code
tags : [code, tumblr, api, javascript, blog]
published : true
portfolio : false
comments : true
---

I've recently started "funkability":http://funkability.tumblr.com a usability and interaction design feed on Tumblr I'll probably get around to updating twice a year.

More interested in the engineering aspects than posting, I've decided to fully integrate my tumblr feed into my blog. Apparently, the simple answer was a little more hidden than expected. Many solutions around the 'web and on Stack Exchange involve using server-side scripting. Because this site is hosted on Github, I don't have access to any scripting, so I had to think of something else. Here's that something else.


h2. The Simple Way:

The easiest way to integrate a tumblr blog into a website is covered in "adrifolio's article":http://adrifolio.tumblr.com/post/487702548/how-to-embed-tumblr-on-your-website-and-customize-it

Basically, you can add

bc. <script type="text/javascript" src="http://funkability.tumblr.com/js"></script>

to anywhere on your site, and an HTML-formatted tumblr dump will appear on your site. You can style the output however you want with CSS.

"Here's what tumblr generates":http://funkability.tumblr.com/js and "here's the site output":/assets/posts/tumblr-integration.html

Yt looks nice if all you want a simple feed on your site, for example if your main page only consists of your tumblr blog, or if you have a separate page dedicated to your tumblr. But the output is flexible and hard to work with. You can't easily customize the output, and you don't get any meta-data. Create controls like pagination or infinite scroll would be inconvenient.




h2. The Complicated Way:

There's another way to get your Tumblr data however - by using the Tumblr API. Finlay covers the other popular method around the 'web "in his article":ttp://finlay.tumblr.com/post/529010691/embed-tumblr-into-your-website

The gist is that you can retrieve an XML feed by using:

bc. http://funkability.tumblr.com/api/read
http://funkability.tumblr.com/api/read?start=0&num=1
http://funkability.tumblr.com/api/read?start=0&num=1&type=text

p. Much better! You receive your feed in a neatly formatted XML file. Great! You even get to select what and how many posts are returned! I post. I seriously got excited when I found this post. But then I saw the following: "So, using SimpleXML in PHP, we can tell our PHP look through for that tag, and then return it’s entire contents."

Well, drats. I'm hosting my site on Github, which isn't exactly a full-featured web host (that's what I get for being cheap). Github doesn't have any server-side scripting enabled, so the many solutions in blogs and on StackExchange to use a server to essentially proxy the XML feed back to the page won't help. So how do we get around this "small" problem of not having PHP?

Well, turns out the answer was on Tumblr's API site the entire time.



h2. Better Way:

Here's what "Tumblr has to say about API integration":http://www.tumblr.com/docs/en/api/v1

They cover Finlay's method of using @http://(username).tumblr.com/api/read@ but also introduce a new method of returning JSON output:

bc. <script type="text/javascript" src="http://(username).tumblr.com/api/read/json"></script>

<script type="text/javascript">
    // The variable "tumblr_api_read" is now set.
    document.write(
        '<a href="' + tumblr_api_read[1][0]['url'] + 
        '">Most recent Tumblr post</a>'
    );
</script>

Cool! Here's "the JSON output of my blog":http://funkability.tumblr.com/api/read/json/. Notice how there is a much richer set of metadata using this method, nicely placed in the variable @tumblr_api_read@.

With this variable, you can now easily extract the post information. For example, you can extract the link to your most recent post, using @tumblr_api_read['posts'][0]['url']@. (Note: for some reason the example @tumblr_api_read[1][0]['url']@ didn't work for me).

For example, here is a link to <notextile>
<script type="text/javascript" src="http://funkability.tumblr.com/api/read/json"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
document.write('<a href="' + tumblr_api_read['posts'][0]['url'] + '">my most recent Tumblr post</a>');
</script>
</notextile>

Here's the example code:

bc. <script type="text/javascript" src="http://funkability.tumblr.com/api/read/json"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
document.write('<a href="' + tumblr_api_read['posts'][0]['url'] + '">Most recent Tumblr post</a>');
</script> 

And there you go, you have full access to your Tumblr feed, using Javascript! 

Next, I'm going to integrate Tumblr into my Jekyll blog feed, add a writeup and a few Javascript parsing functions, and some examples on how it all works.
